Hi everyone, in this video I'm going to show you how to use ProQuest Central Premium, one of the largest and most comprehensive databases available through the North Central University Library.
If you're working on a research paper in almost any subject area, business, education, psychology, theology, social sciences, or general studies, ProQuest is a great place to start.
Let's walk through how to use it effectively.
To get started, you're going to start on the library homepage. You get here by going to library.northcentral.edu, and we're going to click on the first bubble here that says Library Databases.
From there we're going to browse alphabetically under the letter P for ProQuest.
A couple things to note about ProQuest. So ProQuest Central Premium is a massive, what we call, database vendor. So it gives us access to a lot of different databases.
There are subsections of ProQuest that are going to refine your search so that you get more relevant results.
So if you start your search with ProQuest Central Premium, you're going to get a lot of results, but not all of them are going to be as specialized as what you need.
If you're doing specific business, education, theology, life sciences, research, I'm going to recommend that you actually start in one of these subsets of ProQuest.
If you find that at some point you're not getting enough results that way, then expand your search to ProQuest Central Premium.
When you're ready to use one of these subsets or ProQuest Central Premium, click on the link.
If you're off campus, you might be prompted to log in using your NCU credentials. Once inside, you'll see the main search screen.
I'm going to start with ProQuest One Business to show you how I'd search for transformational leadership.
At the top of the screen, you see the large search box. You'll want to type in your keywords there.
Then you'll click Search. ProQuest will return results that may include scholarly journal articles, dissertations and theses, news articles, reports, and other academic materials.
Because ProQuest is so large, your initial results are going to include thousands of items, so filtering is really important.
On the left-hand side of the screen, you'll see filtering options. To narrow your results, you can check the box for peer-reviewed articles, limit by publication date, and select a specific source type, such as scholarly journals.
You can also filter by subject. I'm going to filter by the subject, leadership.
Now we can see that my results go down to 4,000 results. Still a lot to comb through, but not quite as much as 500,000.
If your professor requires peer-reviewed academic sources, make sure to select that filter right away.
Filtering helps you move from broad results to more focused, relevant sources for your assignment. This ultimately saves you more time and effort.
When you click on an article title, you'll see the abstract, the author information, publication details, and full-text access items.
If full-text is available, you'll typically see a PDF or an HTML full-text link. Click the PDF if you'd like to see the article formatted exactly the way it appears in the journal.
If full-text isn't available directly, look for a find full-text or similar link to check access through other databases.
If we don't have access, you can request the article through interlibrary loan.
For more precise results, click on Advanced Search.
Here, you can search for exact phrases using quotation marks, combined search terms using and, or, or not, Boolean operators or Boolean terms, search by author or publication, and you can limit by document type.
For example, you could search servant leadership and organizational culture. This helps ensure that your results include both concepts.
Advanced Search is especially helpful for upper-level research papers or when you need more targeted resources.
When viewing an article, you'll usually see a couple different tools that allow you to download the article, email it to yourself, save it to a personal folder, or view citation options.
ProQuest can generate citations in APA and other styles. However, always double-check automatically generated citations for formatting accuracy.
You can also export citations to tools like Academic Writer or other citation managers like Zotero if needed.
You'll also notice that when you are in an article, there is a research assistant.
This is non-generative AI that scans the article and pulls out key takeaways that might be helpful to you.
So at a glance, you can see that this article talks about the effectiveness of leadership development programs, the role of experimental learning in leadership training, and the impact of servant leadership on organizational culture.
That might be relevant to your paper or it might not. Now at a glance, you can know that.
It also highlights other documents that might be similar to your article.
It tags the article with key subject phrases that you also know where to find resources and if the resource is relevant to you.
If we go back to our search page, you'll also notice that additional keywords load underneath the search.
This is also non-generative AI that you are allowed to use to help you narrow down your search.
For example, if I'm writing a paper on transformational leadership and one of my main points is about team dynamics, I can click on team dynamics to get results that are going to help me support my main point.
ProQuest Central Premium is a powerful tool and a flexible research tool that works well for a wide range of subjects.
Start with clear keywords, use filters to refine your results, and always check for peer reviewed sources when required.
required. And as always, we're here to help. Happy researching!